What problem is Spring JDBC trying to solve?
Whenever I'm going to introduce another framework or tool into my code base,
I want to look and see what this is actually buying me.
These are the big questions I ask, what is it trying to solve for me?
Well Spring JDBC fixes quite a few problems over standard JDBC and is
simpler to work with than an ORM like Hibernate and JPA.
The biggest thing it fixes, and for me this is reason enough to use it,
is the reduced complexity of my code base.
Spring JDBC code is much simpler than standard JDBC.
And although not a full featured ORM like Hibernate,
it still encourages the use of object oriented programming in its design.
Since it's written using the Spring framework,
configuration information is injected into our application,
making our application more portable.
And overall I like the simplicity it brings and allows you to focus on the
business needs and not the extraneous code of closing and opening connections or dealing with various JDBC problems.